log_15-05-20
Must install Anddroid API Level 23 in Android Studio. 
	Go to Tools > SDK Manager > Appearance and Behaviour > System Settings > Android SDK , select API Lvl23, press ok and install.
	Go to build.gradle (Module: sample) and change android.defaultConfig.targetSkdVersion to 23.
	Sync IDE.
	Wait for indexation.
	Errors should go away and imports from android.* should work.
log_25-05-20
    Patrol function available
    Restart usually required before starting the custom app again due to unremoved listeners etc.
    Fabricate mount tomorrow at 2pm.
    Use clamps from the workshop to fix the mount to the robot frame.
log_29-05-20
	Dispenser arrived, measured dimensions and weight (loaded)
	x=
	y=
	z=105mm
	m=1.8kg
	bottomClearance>=250mm
	battery weight=4*~175g=700g
log_01-06-20
	Created bugList.xlsx
	Created Product backlog
	The documentation on Github lacks the information to determine when ABORT and CANCELLED (variants) statuses will occur. This makes testing hard to do, if not impossible. I will therefore catch all non-progessive states and try the action again. This will occur 3 times before Temi gives up and calls for help. On-screen instructions will tell the user to move Temi back to the home base and restart it.
	Checked out 1x G-clamp from ENGSERV to be returned by 14-06-20.
log_04-06-20
	Trial 1 at RAH C.
	Left PMMA leg fractured during transportation.
	Unhandled fatal exception on button press with no internet connection.
	Range from home base ~30m (no obstructing walls). Otherwise localisation fails (stuttering).
	Novelty aspect overwhelmingly successful.
	Close calls with regards to collisions. Need auditory awareness broadcast.
	Next Steps:
		Will be given audiovisual assets to be used on UI.
log_24-06-20
    Started SRS
    Created Intro section, context diagrams
    Completed Functional Requirements list
log_26-06-20
    Completed body of SRS
        State Machine flow diagram
        Nonfunctional Requirements
        Security Reqs
        Performance Reqs
    SRS needs to be formatted and some parts need fixing.
log_29-06-20
    UX Mockups
    Reading
        Android JUnit
        Android Mock Libraries
        Event Listener Testing
        Robolectric AndroidX testing
log_01-07-20
    Whiteboard planned out state machine
    Tried implementing robot JUnit test. robot instance is nuoll if run on dev machine! no unit tests involving the robot are possible!
    Java concurrency
        https://howtodoinjava.com/java/multi-threading/wait-notify-and-notifyall-methods/
        https://www.callicoder.com/java-multithreading-thread-and-runnable-tutorial/
    Software design synth:
        State thread should be a producer of TTSStrings in a queue
        Concurrency condition in this case should be if wee have a nonzero number of queue items
        TTS, location, etc should run off seperate threads that synchronise on themselves
        The UI thread shall prepare the state thread to act relevantly and then notify() on the state thread when hearing a status change
        The state thread shall then produce a queue element and notify() the relevant thread
log_03-07-20
	In Java fashion, we will try to use objects to represent states
	This has failed and was reverted
	Now working on creating a simultaneous state of patrolling and speaking
	The tts listener and ongotolocationstatus listeners are written with different structures! this means I cant make a generic function to handle them and instead need to do string processing.....
	Timer is a recurring fn... edit: not, it is fine
log_06-07-20
	We want the state machine to do as follows:
		Start gotolocation
		print timer start time
		wait()
		notify()
		completed gotolocation
		waitfor10s
		wait()
		notify() (from timer)
			if not notified from timer, do something else.
		increment state
	Robot will wait for some seconds now successfully.
	Made MainActivity more human readable
	Added stop button
	The length of time the robot will wait for will be manually calibrated. This will include the length of time the speedh instruction takes to say. i will not be including a listener for the speech request for simplicity. If we wanted that, we would have to switch case the state every time the state thread is woken up.
	I will experiment with different sets of TTS listeners until the end of the day, and move on if i have not figured out a solution.
	Local inner class implementing listener intercafe successfully created to schedule a timer task after a ttsrequest goes through.
log_07-07-20
	Created callback interface for setting textview from non-activity appcompat object using source: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/10996479/how-to-update-a-textview-of-an-activity-from-another-class/27939196#27939196
log_08-07-20

log 09-07-20
    When trying to run on Pixel 3 Virtual Device:

    07-09 13:22:03.578 1968-2598/system_process I/ActivityManager: Start proc 5633:com.robotemi.sdk.sample/u0a61 for activity com.robotemi.sdk.sample/.MainActivity
    07-09 13:22:03.665 1968-3619/system_process W/ActivityManager: Unable to start service Intent { cmp=com.roboteam.teamy.usa/com.roboteam.teamy.sdk.SdkService } U=0: not found
    07-09 13:22:03.666 1968-1979/system_process W/ActivityManager: Unable to start service Intent { cmp=com.roboteam.teamy.china/com.roboteam.teamy.sdk.SdkService } U=0: not found

    SDK service only binds when robot is active?

    Created qr code using https://www.qrcode-monkey.com/ links to .md on github

    Created Operator Menu
    TODO: vreate viewflipper to switch layouts in one activity
    TODO: bind buttons to functions
log_10-07-20
	Managed enabling and disabling of buttons before/after start.end
		Next time: check that the last button does change enabled state properly
	Buttons functional
	Temi's thoughts are sometimes displayed in the thoughtbox.
		Issue where calling updateThought from the state thread would throw an exception. Views can only be accessed by the UI thread in this case. Need to call the UI thread to run it. (The UI thread is always active sono need to notify or anything there)
		Viewflipper was implenmented to switch between views/layouts instead of the two diffrent activities. Having two activities that want to access the statemachine is complicated and uneccesary.
log_14-07-20
	Confirmation from devs that we cannot access sensors or camera feed.
	Confirmation from devs that we cannot manipulate the user detection distance.
	Fracture inspection of broken leg
	FEA of base plate
	Rough sketch of new part
	Static Analysis of part
	Need to have Temi's CAD model before continuing
	Ultimaker 2+ Extended in workshop should be sufficient to PLA print the part(s) since it is 357x342x488mm
log_16-07-20
	Meeting about user detection.
		Ambient sound
		on go
		on stop
		etc
		User detection
			Interaction when on detect etc
		Mount part
			Triangular slot
			ABS print 2+ extended
			keep the 10mm plate
		Fixes
			Finite number of tries
			call for help when stuck
		Problems
			Children using it
			Splashback
		battery and Closure
			Monitor battery and act accordingly

log_20-07-20
	S5 or 2+E
	S5 UMS5 330 x 240 x 300mm
	Created rough partRough part is now printing (half symmetry) in 2+ on Lvl1 to check fit
	Tomorrow, the fill scale one will be sent to CSE EngServ for fabrication in the S5
	Acquired hardware:
		6 x M8x60 screws
		6 x M8 nuts
log_21-07-20
	Printing test parts on UM4 and UM8 should be done by tomorrow
	System.out is not showing on logcat or run:?
	WaitspeechListener now contains the timer and timertask
	onGo
	onStop
	Interaction when on detect etc
	Music: https://www.bensound.com
log_22-07-20
	Moved slot towards the back of the device
	Laser cut new plate	made an error and cut ot to 300mm thickness, will need to go in again and trim to 240mm
	Added 0.5mm printer tolerance for clearance
	Added holes for mountplate to prevent side-to-side movement
	
	Programming features that need to be implemented:
		Do not interrupt itself when speaking the greeting line.
		Wait for 30s after any interaction
		goToLocation after saying goodbye, not during
		return to base when battery falls to 10%, resume when at 100%
		
	Have a listener that activates a method after a timer ends.
	Listener class must override WaitInterface
	public interface WaitInterface contains doneWaiting method
	Listener implements WaitInterface must have access to Robot r and StateMachine sm
	
	goToLocation after speech
	
	SM Thread wake
	Set up Listener implements WaitInterface
	start TTS (from within listener? is this bad practice or something?)
	wait SM Thread synchronised(sm)
	TTS completes
	Listener activates its doneWaiting method
		doneWaiting(){
			 synchronised(sm){
				notify();
			}
		}
	SM thread is notified, iterate while
	state=PATROLLING
	goToLocation(next)
	add Location Listener
	wait()
	locationListener completes
	notify() -> wake()
	wake(){
		switchToCorrectBranch(){
			setUpListener(){
				
		}
log_31-07-20
	Dissolved PVA supports over the last few days
	Drilled and filed to size.
	NOTE: non-stainless (non-galvanised) screws will most likely rust and leave brown residue after dissolving PVA due to resident moisture in holes.
	NOTE: need to change hole tolerance to 2*printerTolerance, need to increase revolve radius by 1.5mm
log_05-08-20
    	Removed dispenser from previous PMMA plate by disolving adhesive with isopropanol. Still some bits left that needs more isporopanol but covered with white tape.
	Assembled dispenser and mounted using:
		4x M3 Threaded Screws
		4x M3 Nuts
	Drilled mounting holes with a 4mm drill bit.
	Drill marker tool must be used softly on PMMA.
	Will use dispenser cap as catching container. No mount yet.
	Covered tablet in cling film. Temp protection.
	Total weight is functional but on the high end. A moderate impact to the top of Temi will take it off its front wheels but not topple it.
	Increased weight means that it no longer safely moves on rough surfaces like synth grass, rugs.
log_06-08-20
	Took Temi home to trial on home network and prepare for trial tomorrow.
log_07-08-20
	Trial 2: RAH
	
	Observations:
	Does not do well on rugs. More specifically, rug-floor interface. Thin carpet is fine.
	dentity field when connecting to network capitalises first letter, then the machine is not able to connecting: used mobile data
	Privacy mode can be turned off easily. Paulo has deleted his Temi app information but picture still remains on the device.
	People used the static dispensers much more frequently than Temi. Possible causes:
		Unknown device, do not touch it.
		Voice interaction not loud enough compared to music volume.
		Lack of signage
	Temi has trouble locating itself without obstacles near.
	New:
	Spoken language reduced to English only. Continue to prepare strings for translation.
	Graphic for face instead of :)
	Increase text size.
	Music/voice volume sliders.
	Music choice (seasonal)
	Need a way of measuring remaining liquid with minimal maintenance and calibration.
		Strain gauge + Ras.PI wifi/BT shield
		Bluetooth interface with dispenser directly
log_14-08-20
	Trying to get temi to not interrupt itself.
		When waiting, a detection listener is active.
		When the detection listener sees a user, it adds a tts listener, removes the detection listener and speaks a line.
		when the ttsListener hears a completed greeting line, it adds a detectionListener and removes itself.
	However, irl, the ttsListener immediately hears a COMLPETED when constructed, therefore allowing the user to interrupt.
		-> it works now but I literally didnt change anything. I am confused.

	TODO: prevent duplicate DetectionListeners

	logcat is having issues displaying Logs and attatching the debugger
		-> restarted adb server using ".\adb kill-server" and ".\adb start-server"

	battery data and bounds set
	state turns to RETURNING when below lower bound
	I got the order wrong so it wait()s forever in RETURNING state
	Fix next time.
log_12-11-20
	Payroll System Activated, Project can now commence again. We shall call this period: Phase 1 Part 2.
	Dalek2's battery seems faulty. It turns off as soon as delek2 ssteps off the home base. EngServices says it is dead. This may be because the onboard BMS shut it down after an electrical fault? Support requested.
	Dalek1's functional battery is now in Dalek2.
	Dalek1 was run for several hours to power cycle and test the current autonomy on the latest version. No problems.
	New software version allows for viewing of the map and simple map editing, but still no access in the Java code.
	WBS and time resouce costs come to 70 hours.
log_13-11-20
	Development machine needs updating of Windows and drivers...
	Gantt chart
		Estimate 6hrs/day
		12hrs/week
	UPDATES
		Merged month old temi/sdk/master branch into Watchdog/FlindersTemi/master
		New layouts and kt files that are useless remain, not a trivial safe usage delete
		CONTENT
			Ability to get mapdata as bitmap
			Go to coordinate control
			Limited detection control, can now turn on/off, set range from 0.6f to 2.0f metres
	Dalek2 user detection was working but not in the FlindersTemi app.
		Tried turning on the new setUserDetectionOn(bool on, float distance) method but no results.
		Moved battery into Dalek1 and tried the lates version of the app. Full functionality.
log_19-11-20
	SA is in lockdown due to COVID outbreak. Working from home.
	Home base may be damaged.
		Temi does not recognise the home bsae after manual or automatic docking.
		Temi does not charge.
		I observedf the electrode closer to the back of the base has come loose from its spring that pushes it upwards. I do not know if this is the intended behaviour. Therefore it may be damaged.
		I put the homebase on an angle so both electrodes would contact Temi. This works for now.
		Need to inspect D2's charger to compare and repair.
	Define battery checking logic in flowchart "SOCManagement.*"
		EDIT: All actions onStart should be triggered by a user input. It may not be user friendly if it runs away as soon as it starts.
log_20-11-20
	Moved the initial battery data check to onClick. This is because:
		getBatteryData() returned null when called in onStart(). Calling bd.getPercentage() threw a NPE.
		The Robot should react to a user input when it has deviating logical paths. If the app crashes continuously, there is no way for the user to stop the robot continuously trying to speak and run away.
	Connectivity problems at home. Persistent problem with home router where it disconnects certain devices and asks for admin password (not AES AuthKey). Manual reconnect to AP and restart of router.
	Note: as locations are defined as strings, the homebase (which is always at location 0 in the List<String> as the result of GetLocations()) string is "home base". The display on the Temi locations menu and the bilboard notif shows "Home Base". It seems that Temi capitalises each word in a location for display. This is not documented in the sdk...
	Recollect Tasks to do:
		Set up listener to listen for reaching HB
		Turn of MP when reaching HB
		Turn off detectionlistener and other intermediate passive listeners since it could return at any point.
		Abstract button onClickListeners for startButton and store state.
	robot.removeDetectionStateChangedListener() is deprecated. Possibly replaced by removeOnDetectionStateChangedListener()
	Make sure there is only one instance of BatteryStateListener at any time (static?)
log_25-11-20
	UI Requirements
		Face			|	
		Colour			|	
		Graphics/Logos	|	
		Element Styles	|	
		Music			|	
		Typography		|	
		Languages		|	
		Functionality	|	
		Animations		|	
		Other 			|	

Name?
List of tasks
send requirements
send mockup

1200-1245
log_26-11-20
	Completed listener framework for listening to battery changes and charging
	Battery listener testing and debugging
	Need to push for volume sliders as test should happen next week
	STill problems with logcat responding, do not know how to get it working
	Autostart when return automatcally should default to true
log_27-11-20
	BatteryListener framework Test1 ready.
	Need to fix
		if temi comes off charging while not patrolling, make it ask for charging or return to hb on press.
			right now it assumes it is on charge and continues listening for battery changes as normal.
log_30-11-20
	Working on Monday so I can notify the team of problems in advance of the test so we have the opportunity to postpone.
	Do I need to try catch finally the null comparisons for robustness?
	Temi's navigatoin failed and almost tipped itself over. Normal environment geometry. The software subsequently crashed and was stuck in a loop. Had to hard button power off.
		Need to catch an abort on the gotolocationstatuschanged event.
		DONE as per logcat-2011201215.txt
		Next step is to tell the user not to touch the retry button. Is there any way of preventing the "Could not reach location" menu screen from appearing?
		Next step is to loop the help message.
		Next step is to either restart or change the UI to suit the stuck state.
	Note use adb "logcat > log.txt" to log logcat (confusing sentence i know)...
	Temi gets off the HB when full but makes multiple SMs as per logcat-2011301412.txt
	BatterySOC changed to soc% fires off a statuschanged when it reaches full and starts a state machine, messing up the initial greeting and thus messes up the sm. Removed line, put warning in JDoc.
log_4-12-20
	Test at RAH west(?) main entrance.
		Small room with glass hallway, restricted glass sliding door, table and other thin obstacles.
		Temi could not see glass door or glass wall with small sill.
			Virtual wall option fixes this problem, however it makes the navigation wierd.
				Temi will not approach within (~30cm) of a wall when completeing a GoTo(). It will however, follow you through it. This makes it possible to set a location close to or beyond the VW boundary. Add user instruction. Needs test.
		Temi would occasionally get in the way of trolleys.
		Music got old fast. Should put in a cycling talking feature.
		Most passerbys would say "oh cool" and proceed on their way without further interacting with Temi. Observed approximately 5% sanitisation rate, 20% interaction rate based on crude human observations.
		User instructions required
			Place a virtual wall bounding all glass walls, doors, thin posts, non-reflective surfaces. Leave a 30cm*sf(2) distance between the walls and Temi's intended path. Alternatively, set a path for it to patrol.
			Avoid pathing or bounding Temi to operate within the middle of the hallway. Keep close to walls for safety, convenience and possibly using it to use as a constant obstacle.
log_10-12-20
	Next week is the last week of University before it closes for the holidays.
	A Temi power cycle fixes logcat. No need to adb connect if using a static ip (which we are).
	D2's charger arrived. Functional. We now have 3 boxes, 3 charging cables and 2 home bases...
	Discussed with Paulo that we should leave both Temis on and docked over the break. If the HB has no intelligence, the battery would stay at 1SOC and possibly degrade. If the HB has intelligence, the battery would be cycled. There is no point leaving it off charge.
	Temi Battery Sequence Testing
		Sequence was fixed and is functional with memory leak. The problem was simply the incorrect setting of states when returning from a patrol, leading to it always starting PATROLLING and never continuing to a waypoint. Fixes to notify() timings.
		Memory leak fixed but requires testing for conformation.
		At the end of the day, D2 would deplete from 100 to 97 and was on charge for about an hour without increasing charge. The charging indicator was on. The device was toggled on/off charge several times to check SOc using the code. No change.
log_11-12-20
	D2 was fully charged by today. Continued testing.
	D2 dropped from 99 to 97 in one patrolCycle.
	Failed to reach charging station throws abort and stops MP, but no user feedback. FIX.
Missing Logs
log_18-12-20
log_19_12_20
-----
log_15_01_21
	Language
log_16_01_21
	UI Rework
log-21_01_21
	Testing framework write up
	Communicated with THRFG+SAH about UI draft
log_22_01_21
	Mech test
	Removed screws (lots of rust, need to replace, maybe use galvanised ones)
	Print test with high res stl, precise to the order or +-0.1mm
	Reduce printer tolerance for holes from 0.5mm to 0.2mm
	Printed hole and slot examples

	Test: Full day autonomous operation with environment changes and people interacting. Battery management activated.
	Added mounting holes to base plate, added chamfer on bottom corner.
	Aded chamfer in the base slot
log_28_01_21
	TODO today
		UI Version 2
		Print testing and submission
		Find flags
		Storyboard text
		Implement text

	Licences
		Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 Unported (CC BY 3.0) at https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/
			https://www.iconfinder.com/onesel
			https://www.iconfinder.com/Mr.hopnguyen
			"Kingdom, uk, united icon" by OnEsel on www.iconfinder.com licenced under CC BY 3.0 / cropped and resized from original 512px
			"Flag, peoples, republic icon"  by OnEsel on www.iconfinder.com licenced under CC BY 3.0 / cropped and resized from original 512px
			"Ensign, flag, nation, vietnam icon" by Mr Hopnguyen on www.iconfinder.com licenced under CC BY 3.0 / cropped and resized from original
			"Ensign, flag, greece, nation icon" by Mr Hopnguyen on www.iconfinder.com licenced under CC BY 3.0 / cropped and resized from original
			"Ensign, flag, italy, nation icon" by Mr Hopnguyen on www.iconfinder.com licenced under CC BY 3.0 / cropped and resized from original

			Sansation OFL

log_29_01_21
	New mount printed with adjustments
		hole tolerance=0.4mm
		Slot tolerance =0.5mm
	TODO today
		Fix lang switcher (not Android locale)
		Finish test cases
		Storyboard and implement text
log_04_02_21
Use uuid.compareTo instead of equality operator ==
	Do not set hey alexa command when init since it wants an amazon account
	Factory Reset
		HPA is still loaded?

		Steps
			Initialise
			Open ADB Port
			Upload App
			Remap
			Set Locations
			Allow HPA to change settings
			Tracking mode on
log_11_02_21
	Documentation
log_12_02_21
	Made gcode for container x3
	DOCTODO
		Safety
		Dispenser assembly pics
		Links
	GeneralTODO
		QR Codes
		Licencing
			OFL
			licence folder delete
		Final Upload
		Release Numbers
log_18_02_21
	Temi autonomous operation on Lvl 4 for several hours.
	Request to extend the time between idle speech.
log_19_02_21
	Idle Speech Extension
		Try include multiple elipsies (escaped )
		String (elipsis character)	res &#8230;
		String (elipsis character)	res (elipsis character)
		String (elipsis character) 	res blank
		String (elipsis character) 	res whitespace
		String (elipsis character) 	res " . "
		String (elipsis character) 	res ". "

	Ignore above, used and tested new TimerTask class.
	PMMA Laser Cut