Terms of Use / Licensing For FreeUSandWorldMaps.com

1. IMPORTANT INFORMATION

Please, read carefully the following terms and conditions. Your download or use of our clip art images implies that you have read and accepted these terms and conditions.

2. LICENSE

FreeUSandWorldMaps.com and Bruce Jones Design grants you a nonexclusive use of the clip art images available on our website in accordance with these terms and conditions (the "license").

Product Usage
All graphics on this site are Royalty Free, which means that you can use them in your commercial, personal or educational projects. You can put the clip art into your own drawings, documents, presentations, scrapbooks, crafts, education projects, class materials and websites without any affect on the copyright or license of your work. You may print, photocopy, make overhead transparencies and alter as you need for your project.

Using Our Maps in Your Book
I love it when people contact me about using one or several of our maps in their book. Go for, that is fine with me (please see exception below). My maps have been used in history books, text books, and many other books. I would love it if you give a credit but you don't have to. I would also love if you sent me notice so that I can link to the book. Remember we also have fully editable Adobe Illustrator and MS PowerPoint maps that can be purchased for your project.

Sample credit line "Maps are courtesy of Bruce Jones Design and FreeUSandWorldMaps.com"

The copyright for our clip art does not transfer and is retained by FreeUSandWorldMaps.com and Bruce Jones Design

Few Exceptions.
• You may NOT use any component of our clip art or site content to produce what could be directly or indirectly considered a competitive venture against us.  Images cannot be resold under any condition, such as a full book of blank maps for sale. But if you are producing a camping book and need images of each state then that is fine. Images cannot be used to duplicate similar websites.

• We would love a link back to our web site but it is not necessary, but it would be greatly appreciated. The preferred text for the link back is “royalty free clip art maps provided by www.freeusandworldmaps.com”

3. DISCLAIMER

Our products are provided "as is" without warranty of any kind, either expressed or implied. In no event shall we be liable for any damages including, but not limited to, direct, indirect, special, incidental or consequential damages or other losses arising out of the use of or inability to use our products.

Some of the clip art images on this site were not created by FreeUSandWorldMaps.com and Bruce Jones Design Inc. and any use of them is at your own risk. If you have comments or questions about this archive or the images featured in it, please contact us.

If you have any questions about this license please contact us at:
bruce (at) bjdesign (dot) com

781-492-0742